Resiliency : Ability to prepare for, respond to, and recover from disruptions
Redundancy: The practice of having multiple copies of data different locations to avoid single point of failure
latency : is time taken for data to travel.
Digital transformation : when an organization modernizes their applications, services and customer relationships by using new technologies.
Cloud Service Provider (CSP) is also used to mean a company that offers cloud computing services over the internet
 
How is data sored:?

Multi tenant enviroment: enviroment in which cloud infrastructure and resources are shared among users.

Single tenant enviroment: An enviroment in which cloude infrastrructure and resources are dedicated to a single user.

Three Cloud deployment models :
_Public : A cloud model that delivers computing , storage , and netword resources through the internet , allowing users to share on demand resources.
_Private: in which all cloud resources are dedicated to single user or organisation and are created , managed and owned on premise data centers.

Benifits:
Time to market
Scalability 
Cost Savings
collabration

Limitations:
_Shift in infrastructure control
One limitation is the shift in ownership of physical infrastructure. Organizations that have
traditionally used on-premises environments have to accept the cloud provider’s controls over
the underlying infrastructure

_Security concerns
A change in who owns the infrastructure may lead to concerns about data privacy and
potential attacks. 

_Migrating existing systems
Depending on the information stored in an organization’s existing systems, migrating and
organizing their data to a new system and environment could be time consuming and difficult.

Cloud computing: THE PRACTICE OF USING ON DEMAND COMPUTING RESOURCES AS SERVICES HOSTED OVER THE INTERNET.

Instance : A server resources that runs workload in the cloud

Ephemerality : the concepts that things only exist for a short amount of time.

3 main components of cloud computing:
1. compute: performed by a physical computer in remote enviroment
2. storage: a solution tha enables organisation to keep , access and maintain digital data on off-site cloud based storage devices.
3. Network

VIRTUALIZATION:
technology that creates a virtual version of physical infrastructure, such as servers, storage and networks

VM's contain there own OS.

VM uses hypervisors to manage the realtionship between physical and virtual resources 

Hypervisor: the abstraction layer taht sits between the physcial computer and the virtual machine.
types of hypervisors.
1. known as bare metal- It replaces the entire operating system of the underlying computer. 
2. Hosted: it runs as application over os, not have its own os.

aAdvantages of VMs
-Portability
-Scalability
-Testing environments

SERVERLESS COMPUTING
Serverless computing is a cloud computing model where servers are abstracted fromdevelopment. Despite the name serverless, this computing model does involve servers. The
servers and resources are completely managed by the cloud service provider (CSP).

Serverless computing is delivered in two main cloud service models: backend as a service
(BaaS) and function as a service (FaaS)

BaaS is a form of serverless computing where the CSP manages all aspects of the backend
infrastructure. This includes servers, containers, and virtual machines. Developers use BaaS to
speed the creation of web applications.

FaaS is a form of serverless computing that runs functions. A function is a small piece of code. Functions are ephemeral, meaning they only exist for a short period of time. Developers can use their choice of programming language to create functions, which makes adopting
serverless computing more convenient.

One benefit of serverless computing is that it’s scalable and follows a pay-as-you-go model.

With serverless computing, organizations inherit the security
controls the CSP has in place for their underlying infrastructure. The CSP takes some of the responsibility, but organizations also have security considerations to take into account.
The short lifespan of functions contributes to their security. Since each function is short-lived,
malicious actors have a very limited window to impose threats

CONTAINERIZATION

Container: A software package that holds only the components necessary to execute a particlular application.

it uses less memory and resources because the operating system itself is not included in the container. easy to deploy across cloud deployment models like public , private or hybrid clouds.
Benefits:
-Portability: Containers enable users to run software quickly from one computing environment to another.

-Immtability:  means an object can’t be changed after it’s created and assigned a value.
Just like the contents of those shipping containers don’t change during transit, cloud containers also can’t be modified during their lifetimes.

-Responsibility separation

CLOUD DATA STORAGE
Cloud data storage is a solution that enables organizations to keep, access, and maintain digital data on off-site, cloud-based storage devices.
Benefits:
-Scalability
-Redundancy: multiplr copies as backup data in different components
-Cost Savings
-Security

Types of storage in clouds:
-Structured data: organized in format like rows and columns. example: names, credit cards and dates .
-Unstructered data: Data is not organized in any easily indenfiable way. example Doc file with images and videos, text.

Storage types:
File: keeps data in one places and organizes it in a simple, easy-to-understand way. for smaller volume of data. oldest and most widely used. 

object: holds unstructured data in bucket( virtual container that holds objects). Buckets is great way to organize large amount of unstructered data 

Block: in this data is divided in small blocks on different location to maximize efficiency. it is flexible and efficient.

Hot and cold data
Hot data is data that users access frequently.
In contrast, cold data is infrequently or rarely accessed. 

Cloud Storage offers four different classes for data storage: standard, nearline, coldline, and
archival

-Standard
The standard storage class is best for hot data, or data that you need to access frequently, and for short periods of time. Data stored in this class is highly available and retrievable in milliseconds. 

-Nearline
Nearline storage is best for data that you only need to access up to once a month. Nearline is more cost effective than standard storage, and a good option for backing up your data.

-Coldline
People who only need to access their data once every 90 days, or once a quarter, can use coldline storage. Coldline storage is very cost effective because the data being stored is at rest for long periods of time.

-Archival
Finally, archival storage is best for archiving or backing up data for disaster recovery purposes. This includes data that is accessed very infrequently, or once a year. Since there’s not as high of a demand for availability, archival storage is also very cost-effective.

