CYBER SEC IN CLOUD.
- defence in depth: A layered approach to vulnerability management that reduces risk.
 
 -TYPES OF SECURITY CONTRO:
Identity: A measure that helps authenticate a user before they access resources, like neworks or storage.

Protective: a measure that protects access to resources and shields agianst malicious attacks. example antiviruses, firewalls,etc

Network: protects access throug network paths.
Detective: A measure used to identify suspicious activity if it occurs
Responsive: An application or tool that uses automation to respond to security events.

Recovery: that restores access and functionality im the event of failures.

A customer is an organization or user who pays a cloud service provider to host and run their cloud resources

-difference between on-premises and cloud responsibilities.
>In a traditional on-premises model, a business owns their own data center and servers. 
The business is responsible for securing their services against threats.
> if that business decides to use a CSP to run or store their resources. in the cloud, then the CSP takes responsibility for some of the security of those assets.The amount of CSP involvement depends on several factors.


The shared responsibility: model is the implicit and explicit agreement between the customer and the cloud service provider, or CSP, regarding the shared accountability for security controls.

COMMON CSP RESPONSIBILTIES:
-The CSP must maintain physical infrastructure like servers and data centers.
-Additionally, CSPs need to ensure network and resource availability.

service-level agreement, or SLA: that quantifies the availability of services.

The shared responsibility model has lots of benefits, but sharing security responsibilities also creates a new set of challenges.
-Misconfiguration is a leading cause of security breaches in the cloud space.
As a cloud security professional, you can help a business avoid these types of security vulnerabilities by closely monitoring resource provisioning, and incorporating automation and safe security policies.

-Another measure that you can use to prevent misconfiguration includes properly managing identity and access management, or IAM policies, and using the principle of least privilege.
>The principle of least privilege means that a security architecture grants the minimum authorizations needed for a principal to perform its function which in turn reduces risks.

The shared fate model emphasizes the CSP’s involvement in the customer’s entire security journey and offers resources to securely manage their environment at each stage.

A landing zone is a modular and scalable configuration that enables organizations to adopt Google Cloud for their business needs

The three major models include:
> infrastructure as a service, or IaaS:In IaaS, the CSP provides instant access to infrastructure services, ranging from compute, storage, and networking to virtualization.CSP has the least responsibility in the IaaS model.

> platform as a service, or PaaS;in a PaaS model, the CSP supplies and manages the hardware and software resources needed to develop applications.

 >software as a service, or SaaS. the CSP has the most responsibility in a SaaS model, where customers only need to focus on securing their content and access policies.

> functions as a service, or FaaS, provides serverless computing to developers who want to run singular pieces of code.

>IDaaS is commonly used for multifactor authentication, single sign-on, and identity and access management.

IAAS: s a cloud computing model where the CSP provides on-demand access to computing resources such as servers, storage, networking, and virtualization.
First, IaaS is scalable, so customers can configure their resources to increase and decrease on-demand depending on their needs. With the CSP managing the physical infrastructure, IT teams can devote more time to managing infrastructure services and security.While the CSP secures the underlying infrastructure, the bulk of the security responsibilities belongs to the customer.

Lift and shift is a migration model where workloads are moved to the cloud with little to no modifications.

PAAS: Platform as a service, or PaaS, is a cloud service model where the CSP hosts and maintains the backend hardware and software that applications use to operate, while developers use these resources to write code and build and deploy their own applications.PaaS includes the CSP’s underlying infrastructure, middleware, and user interface. 
● Infrastructure: includes underlying physical infrastructure like data centers and servers
● Middleware: includes software like operatings systems and code libraries
● User interface: includes a graphic user interface (GUI) or command-line interface (CLI)

SAAS: is a cloud-hosted application software accessed over the internet through a web browser or mobile app. The SaaS model is ideal for organizations who might not have the staff or expertise to manage infrastructure or build their own applications.  SaaS is ideal for those searching for a solution that requires minimal maintenance and security responsibilities.

Shadow IT tends to occur when employees or teams use SaaS products without getting approval from IT teams first.

IAM (Identity access mangement):
In security, making sure the appropriate people can (or can’t) access certain things is essential to maintaining strong security measures. 
Roles are a collection of permissions that can be applied to principals.
Permissions determine the actions a principal can take.
principals represent either an end user or an application
For example, a person on your team might need access to a storage bucket. To get access to the bucket’s content, they would first need to be granted the correct role. When granting roles, it’s important to apply the least amount of privileges.
A group is a collection of principals, like users or applications, that can be categorized together and assigned roles. Groups are useful when assigning several principals the same access controls.
A service account represents a non-human identity, like an application, service, or virtual
machine. These identities frequently need to use data from your cloud environment, so they
must be granted permissions to access data.
Federation is a method of granting external identities access to your cloud environment.

Networking
router is a network device that connects multiple networks together.
A switch is a device that makes connections between specific devices on a network by sending and receiving data

With networking in the cloud, instead of configuring hardware routers and switches, as a cloud cyber security professional, you implement routers and switches using software. This process is called software-defined networking, or SDN. CSPs use SDN for cloud services, where the routers and switches are hosted in data centers.

An API application programming interface is a library function or system access point with well-defined syntax and code that communicates with other applications and third parties.
SDN is useful because it reduces the amount of maintenance an organization needs to keep networks running.
The CSP manages the physical devices, so you can focus on developing and securing their applications.
Load balancing distributes user traffic across several cloud servers, where the load balancer moves traffic to the appropriate backend service, like the cloud resources running your application.
There are two types of load balancers: application and network.

The OSI model is a standardized concept that describes the seven layers computers use to communicate and send data over the network.
Firewalls are a network security device that monitor traffic to or from networks. Firewalls can also restrict specific incoming and outgoing network traffic.
Firewall as a service (FWaaS) is a service model for cloud environments. Organizations can
adopt FWaaS to help block unauthorized traffic on their network. For example, Google’s Cloud
Firewall is a FWaaS solution that protects resources from attacks both internally and externally.

A virtual private cloud, or VPC, is a private cloud hosted within a public cloud, enabling organizations to use the public cloud’s resources while being completely isolated from other cloud users.
Reserving a table at a busy restaurant is a lot like a virtual private cloud.

Segmentation is important for network security because it improves an organization’s ability to closely control and monitor network traffic. Segmentation is beneficial to organizations because separating cloud resources that shouldn’t communicate with each other into different subnets reduces the attack surface.
